manual/scripting/debugging/visual-studio.md, before:

# Visual Studio

![Visual Studio Extension](../../get-started/media/vs.jpg)

You can download Visual Studio [here](https://www.visualstudio.com). We support **Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio 2019, Visual Studio 2022**.

Flax requries the following components to be installed in order to support C# scripts debugging:
* C# and Visual Basic Roslyn Compilers
* C# and Visual Basic
* .NET Framework 4.5.2 targeting pack (or any other newer framework)

![Visual Studio Components for C#](media/vs-components-cs.png)

For C++ scripts debugging platform-dependant toolset is required:
* Windows 10 SDK (or any other newer SDK)
* MSVC C++ 2015 v140 toolset (or any other newer toolset)

![Visual Studio Components for C++](media/vs-components-cpp.png)

### 1. Install Visual Studio plugin

Download and install [Flax Engine Tools for Visual Studio](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Flax.FlaxVS) which is requried to debug game scripts right inside the VS.

![Flax VS](media/flax-vs.jpg)

### 2. Attach script to actor

To debug script code it has to be attached to the actor in the scene.
Simply drag and drop it into the selected actor properties area.

![Add script](../media/attach-script.gif)

### 3. Open script in Visual Studio

Double-click on a script item and wait for the IDE to show up.

![Script in Visual Studio](media/vs-script-open.jpg)

Ensure to pick a proper solution configuration eg. **Editor.Development** and select platform **Win64**.

![Visual Studio Configuration](media/vs-configuration-picker.jpg)

### 4. Add a breakpoint

Click on a left side of the code editor to assign a breakpoint to the line. Red dot should be added as shown in the picture below.

![Add a breakpoint](media/debug-vs-2.jpg)

### 5. Attach to Flax

Press the `Attach to Flax` button with a green arrow to connect Visual Studio to Flax Editor. Visual Studio should enter a debugging mode and the bottom of the IDE will remain orange. This signifies Visual Studio is ready for debugging.

![Script in Visual Studio](media/debug-vs-3.jpg)

![Debugging in Visual Studio](media/debug-vs-6.jpg)

### 6. Start a game

Go back to the Flax Editor and press the `Play` button to start a game. Then script *OnUpdate()* function will be called and assigned breakpoint hit.

![Script in Visual Studio](media/debug-vs-4.jpg)

### 7. Debug your code

Now you can use all Visual Studio debugging features to verify state of the variables and test your code.

![Script in Visual Studio](media/debug-vs-5.jpg)

For more information about debugging in Visual Studio, see the [VS documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/debugger/index).

Commit message:

Update docs info to the latest .NET 7

manual/scripting/debugging/visual-studio.md, after:

# Visual Studio

![Visual Studio Extension](../../get-started/media/vs.jpg)

You can download Visual Studio [here](https://www.visualstudio.com). We support **Visual Studio 2022** (older versions still work with Flax but the latest .NET SDK 7 doesn't support them).

Flax requries the following components to be installed in order to support C# scripts debugging:
* C# and Visual Basic Roslyn Compilers
* C# and Visual Basic
* .NET 7.0 Runtime (already required by Flax Editor)
* .NET SDK (already required by Flax Editor)

![Visual Studio Components for C#](media/vs-components-cs.png)

For C++ scripts debugging platform-dependant toolset is required:
* Windows 10 SDK (or any other newer SDK)
* MSVC C++ 2015 v140 toolset (or any other newer toolset)

![Visual Studio Components for C++](media/vs-components-cpp.png)

### 1. Attach script to actor

To debug script code it has to be attached to the actor in the scene.
Simply drag and drop it into the selected actor properties area.

![Add script](../media/attach-script.gif)

### 2. Open script in Visual Studio

Double-click on a script item and wait for the IDE to show up.

![Script in Visual Studio](media/vs-script-open.jpg)

Ensure to pick a proper solution configuration eg. **Editor.Development** and select platform **Win64**.

![Visual Studio Configuration](media/vs-configuration-picker.jpg)

### 3. Add a breakpoint

Click on a left side of the code editor to assign a breakpoint to the line. Red dot should be added as shown in the picture below.

![Add a breakpoint](media/debug-vs-2.jpg)

### 4. Attach to Flax

Press **Attach to Process** under **Debug** menu in Visual Studio.

![Debugging in Visual Studio](media/vs-attach-to-process-1.png)

It will open an additional window where you can select a process to debug (eg. Flax Editor, cooked game, or game running on a DevKit). After you select the target process click **Attach**. You can search processes by name by using *Filter process* text field or use *Select Window* tool. In most cases, you want to select `FlaxEditor.exe` process that is running a project which you want to debug.

![Debugging in Visual Studio](media/vs-attach-to-process-2.png)

Visual Studio should enter a debugging mode and the bottom of the IDE will remain orange. This signifies Visual Studio is ready for debugging.

![Debugging in Visual Studio](media/debug-vs-6.jpg)

### 5. Start a game

Go back to the Flax Editor and press the `Play` button to start a game. Then script *OnUpdate()* function will be called and assigned breakpoint hit.

![Script in Visual Studio](media/debug-vs-4.jpg)

### 6. Debug your code

Now you can use all Visual Studio debugging features to verify state of the variables and test your code.

![Script in Visual Studio](media/debug-vs-5.jpg)

For more information about debugging in Visual Studio, see the [VS documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/debugger/index).
