manual/editor/profiling/dot-trace.md, before:

# dotTrace Profiler

**dotTrace** is .NET performance profiler by JetBrains. It can be downloaded [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/profiler).

With dotTrace you can detect performance bottlenecks in a game. It can get accurate data on calls execution time, memory allocations and filesystem access.

## Setup

![dotTrace setup for Flax](media/dot-trace-setup.png)

Open dotTrace and select option **Profile Local App** -> **Mono Application**. Then pick game executable. When launching Flax Editor fill also the command line arguments with your project path. Optionally, under Advanced options you can Enable native profiling to get C++ code statistics. Then hit **Run** button and use profiler session window to capture the snapshots.

## Profiling Snapshots

![dotTrace profiler for Flax](media/dot-trace-profiler-flax.png)

dotTrace profiler snapshots provide various informations about the Flax game performance. Those can be used to deeply analyze and monitor the runtime. To learn more about it please visit official documentation [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/profiler/documentation/documentation.html).

Commit message:

Update docs about profiling with new .NET 7

manual/editor/profiling/dot-trace.md, after:

# dotTrace Profiler

**dotTrace** is .NET performance profiler by JetBrains. It can be downloaded [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/profiler).

With dotTrace you can detect performance bottlenecks in a game. It can get accurate data on calls execution time, memory allocations and filesystem access.

## Setup

![dotTrace setup for Flax](media/dot-trace-profiler-step-1.png)

Open dotTrace and **add New Process Run** with **.NET Core Application** type (as shown above).

![dotTrace setup for Flax](media/dot-trace-profiler-step-2.png)

Then pick game executable (as shown above) to **Path** field. When launching Flax Editor fill also the command line arguments with your project path (if needed). Click **Save** and then you can use **Start** button to run the Flax with profilering tools attached.

![dotTrace setup for Flax](media/dot-trace-profiler-step-3.png)

## Profiling Snapshots

![dotTrace profiler for Flax](media/dot-trace-profiler-flax.png)

dotTrace profiler snapshots provide various informations about the Flax game performance. Those can be used to deeply analyze and monitor the runtime. To learn more about it please visit official documentation [here](https://www.jetbrains.com/profiler/documentation/documentation.html).
