manual/graphics/lighting/light-types/point-light.md, before:

# Point Light

![Point Light](media/point-light.png)

A **Point Light** emits light from a single point in all directions. Point Lights are useful for simulating sources of local light, such as lamps and lightbulbs.

## Light Properties

![Point Light Properties](media/point-light-properties.jpg)

| Property | Description |
|--------|--------|
| **Radius** | Light range (in world units). |
| **Source Radius** | Light build source radius (in world units). |
| **Source Length** | Light build source length (in world units). |
| **Fall Off Exponent** | Controls the radial falloff of the light. Works only if the option *Use Inverse Squared Falloff* is disabled. |
| **Use Inverse Squared Falloff** | If checked, physically based inverse squared distance falloff will be used. |
| **Color** | Light emission color. |
| **Brightness** | Light brightness parameter. Controls intensity of the light emitted by this actor. |
| **View Distance** | Controls light visibility range. The distance at which the light becomes completely faded. Use a value of 0 to always draw a light. |
| **Minimum Roughness** | Controls the minimum roughness value used to clamp material surface roughness during shading. Can help with softening specular highlights. |

## Area Lights

By using the **Source Radius** and **Source Length** properties you can change the point light source build dimensions. This allows simulating area lights and brings more realism into the scenes.

![Area Lights](media/area-lights.png)

## Light Fall Off

![Light Fall Off](media/light-fall-off.png)

Flax offers two modes for light fall off. A custom **Exponent** parameter can be used or use the **Inverse Squared Falloff** mode. Inverse squared mode gives a more physically based distance falloff, where **Radius** is only clamping the light's contribution. Hovewer using the manual light falloff exponent gives more customization options.

## Shadow Properties

![Point Light Properties](media/shadow-light-properties.jpg)

| Property | Description |
|--------|--------|
| **Mode** | Describes how a visual element casts shadows. Possible options: <br><table><tbody><tr><th>Option</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>**None**</td><td>Never render shadows.</td></tr><tr><td>**Static Only**</td><td>Render shadows only in static views (env probes, lightmaps, etc.).</td></tr><tr><td>**Dynamic Only**</td><td>Render shadows only in dynamic views (game, editor, etc.).</td></tr><tr><td>**All**</td><td>Always render shadows.</td></tr></tbody></table> |
| **Sharpness** | Controls shadow sharpness. Can be used to tweak the penumbra width. |
| **Strength** | Controls dynamic shadow blending strength. Default is 1 for fully opaque shadows, a value of 0 disables shadows. |
| **Distance** | Shadow rendering distance (in world units). |
| **Fade Distance** | Shadow fade off distance (in world units). |
| **Depth Bias** | Controls dynamic shadow depth bias value. Depth bias is used for shadow map comparison. |
| **Normal Offset Scale** | Controls dynamic shadows normal vector offset scale. A factor specifying the offset to add to the calculated shadow map depth with respect to the surface normal. |
| **Contact Shadows Length** | The length of the rays for contact shadows computed via screen-space tracing. Set this to values higher than 0 to enable screen-space shadow rendering for this light. This improves the shadowing details. Actual ray distance is based on the pixel distance from the camera. |
| **Update Rate** | Frequency of shadow updates. 1 - every frame, 0.5 - every second frame, 0 - on start or change. It's the inverse value of how many frames should happen in-between shadow map updates (eg. inverse of 0.5 is 2 thus shadow will update every 2nd frame). |
| **Update Rate At Distance** | Frequency of shadow updates at the maximum distance from the view at which shadows are still rendered. This value is multiplied by *Shadows Update Rate* and allows scaling the update rate in-between the shadow range. For example, if light is near view, it will get normal shadow updates but will reduce this rate when far from view. |

> [!Note]
> To learn more about shadows in Flax see [this page](../shadows.md).

## Volumetric Fog Properties

![Point Light Properties](media/volumetric-fog-properties.jpg)

| Property | Description |
|--------|--------|
| **Scattering Intensity** | Controls how much this light will contribute to the [Volumetric Fog](../../fog-effects/volumetric-fog.md). When set to 0, there is no contribution. |
| **Cast Shadow** | If checked, light will cast a volumetric shadow to [Volumetric Fog](../../fog-effects/volumetric-fog.md). Also shadow casting by this light should be enabled in order to make it cast volumetric fog shadows. |

> [!Note]
> To learn more about Volumetric Fog effect see [this page](../../fog-effects/volumetric-fog.md).

## IES Profile Properties

![Point Light Properties](../media/ies-properties.jpg)

| Property | Description |
|--------|--------|
| **IES Texture** | Assigned IES texture (light profiles from real world measured data). Learn more about it [here](../ies-profiles.md). |
| **Use IES Brightness** | If checked, light brightness will be based on imported IES Profile brightness. Then use the *Brightness Scale* parameter to scale it. |
| **Brightness Scale** | Custom scale parameter for light brightness if the option *Use IES Brightness* is checked. |

> [!Note]
> To learn more about IES Light Profiles see [this page](../ies-profiles.md).

Commit message:

Add shadows resolution option docs to lights

manual/graphics/lighting/light-types/point-light.md, after:

# Point Light

![Point Light](media/point-light.png)

A **Point Light** emits light from a single point in all directions. Point Lights are useful for simulating sources of local light, such as lamps and lightbulbs.

## Light Properties

![Point Light Properties](media/point-light-properties.jpg)

| Property | Description |
|--------|--------|
| **Radius** | Light range (in world units). |
| **Source Radius** | Light build source radius (in world units). |
| **Source Length** | Light build source length (in world units). |
| **Fall Off Exponent** | Controls the radial falloff of the light. Works only if the option *Use Inverse Squared Falloff* is disabled. |
| **Use Inverse Squared Falloff** | If checked, physically based inverse squared distance falloff will be used. |
| **Color** | Light emission color. |
| **Brightness** | Light brightness parameter. Controls intensity of the light emitted by this actor. |
| **View Distance** | Controls light visibility range. The distance at which the light becomes completely faded. Use a value of 0 to always draw a light. |
| **Minimum Roughness** | Controls the minimum roughness value used to clamp material surface roughness during shading. Can help with softening specular highlights. |

## Area Lights

By using the **Source Radius** and **Source Length** properties you can change the point light source build dimensions. This allows simulating area lights and brings more realism into the scenes.

![Area Lights](media/area-lights.png)

## Light Fall Off

![Light Fall Off](media/light-fall-off.png)

Flax offers two modes for light fall off. A custom **Exponent** parameter can be used or use the **Inverse Squared Falloff** mode. Inverse squared mode gives a more physically based distance falloff, where **Radius** is only clamping the light's contribution. Hovewer using the manual light falloff exponent gives more customization options.

## Shadow Properties

![Point Light Properties](media/shadow-light-properties.jpg)

| Property | Description |
|--------|--------|
| **Mode** | Describes how a visual element casts shadows. Possible options: <br><table><tbody><tr><th>Option</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>**None**</td><td>Never render shadows.</td></tr><tr><td>**Static Only**</td><td>Render shadows only in static views (env probes, lightmaps, etc.).</td></tr><tr><td>**Dynamic Only**</td><td>Render shadows only in dynamic views (game, editor, etc.).</td></tr><tr><td>**All**</td><td>Always render shadows.</td></tr></tbody></table> |
| **Sharpness** | Controls shadow sharpness. Can be used to tweak the penumbra width. |
| **Strength** | Controls dynamic shadow blending strength. Default is 1 for fully opaque shadows, a value of 0 disables shadows. |
| **Distance** | Shadow rendering distance (in world units). |
| **Fade Distance** | Shadow fade off distance (in world units). |
| **Depth Bias** | Controls dynamic shadow depth bias value. Depth bias is used for shadow map comparison. |
| **Normal Offset Scale** | Controls dynamic shadows normal vector offset scale. A factor specifying the offset to add to the calculated shadow map depth with respect to the surface normal. |
| **Contact Shadows Length** | The length of the rays for contact shadows computed via screen-space tracing. Set this to values higher than 0 to enable screen-space shadow rendering for this light. This improves the shadowing details. Actual ray distance is based on the pixel distance from the camera. |
| **Update Rate** | Frequency of shadow updates. 1 - every frame, 0.5 - every second frame, 0 - on start or change. It's the inverse value of how many frames should happen in-between shadow map updates (eg. inverse of 0.5 is 2 thus shadow will update every 2nd frame). |
| **Update Rate At Distance** | Frequency of shadow updates at the maximum distance from the view at which shadows are still rendered. This value is multiplied by *Shadows Update Rate* and allows scaling the update rate in-between the shadow range. For example, if light is near view, it will get normal shadow updates but will reduce this rate when far from view. |
| **Resolution** | Defines the resolution of the shadow map texture used to draw objects projection from light-point-of-view. Higher values increase shadow quality at cost of performance. |

> [!Note]
> To learn more about shadows in Flax see [this page](../shadows.md).

## Volumetric Fog Properties

![Point Light Properties](media/volumetric-fog-properties.jpg)

| Property | Description |
|--------|--------|
| **Scattering Intensity** | Controls how much this light will contribute to the [Volumetric Fog](../../fog-effects/volumetric-fog.md). When set to 0, there is no contribution. |
| **Cast Shadow** | If checked, light will cast a volumetric shadow to [Volumetric Fog](../../fog-effects/volumetric-fog.md). Also shadow casting by this light should be enabled in order to make it cast volumetric fog shadows. |

> [!Note]
> To learn more about Volumetric Fog effect see [this page](../../fog-effects/volumetric-fog.md).

## IES Profile Properties

![Point Light Properties](../media/ies-properties.jpg)

| Property | Description |
|--------|--------|
| **IES Texture** | Assigned IES texture (light profiles from real world measured data). Learn more about it [here](../ies-profiles.md). |
| **Use IES Brightness** | If checked, light brightness will be based on imported IES Profile brightness. Then use the *Brightness Scale* parameter to scale it. |
| **Brightness Scale** | Custom scale parameter for light brightness if the option *Use IES Brightness* is checked. |

> [!Note]
> To learn more about IES Light Profiles see [this page](../ies-profiles.md).
