manual/get-started/prefabs/index.md, before:

# Prefabs

![Prefabs](media/nested_prefabs.gif)

A **Prefab** is an asset that contains serialized **actors hierarchy including scripts** and data. The prefab acts like a template or an archetype which you can spawn in the scene. Any edits made to a prefab asset are immediately reflected in all instances produced from it, but you can also override components and settings for each instance individually.

Flax supports creating **Nested Prefabs** which means you can use objects from prefabs inside other prefabs. This helps with creating advanced gameplay content.

Creating and applying changes to prefabs is only supported in the Editor. However, spawning prefabs is dedicated to being used at runtime right in your game. Use this documentation section to learn more about creating and using prefabs.

## Topics

<div class="frontpage">

<div class="frontpage-section">
<a href="creating-prefabs.md"><img src="media/creating-prefabs-icon.jpg"></a>
<h3><a href="creating-prefabs.md">Creating prefabs</a></h3>
<p>Learn how to create a new prefab asset.</p>
</div>

<div class="frontpage-section">
<a href="prefab-editor.md"><img src="media/prefab-editor-icon.jpg"></a>
<h3><a href="prefab-editor.md">Prefab Editor</a></h3>
<p>Learn how to open and edit prefab assets.</p>
</div>

<div class="frontpage-section">
<a href="spawning-prefabs.md"><img src="media/spawning-prefabs-icon.jpg"></a>
<h3><a href="spawning-prefabs.md">Spawning prefabs</a></h3>
<p>Learn how to add prefab objects to your game.</p>
</div>

</div>

## Prefabs in Editor

Spawned prefabs are called **prefab instances** and contain a link to the prefab asset and the reference object from the prefab. The Editor highlights the prefab instances in the *Scene Window* as shown in the picture below.

![Prefab Instance in Editor](media/prefab-instance.png)

After selecting a prefab instance the *Properties Window* shows two additional buttons on top of the panel: **Select Prefab** and **View Changes**.

![Prefab Instance Diff Popup](media/prefab-instance-buttons.png)

The **Select Prefab** button shows the linked prefab asset location in the *Content Window* and selects it.

The **View Changes** button shows a popup with any modified actor and scripts properties compared to the prefab. It is used to see all the changes applied to the prefab instance and allows them to be reverted or applied to the prefab. The picture below shows the content of a sample prefab changes popup. You can right click on the modified tree nodes to revert the per-property change while keeping other modification unchanged.

![Prefab Instance Diff Popup](media/prefab-instance-diff-popup.png)

You can also see per-property modifications applied to the prefab instance. The Editor shows them by highlighting the label of the changed property as shown in the picture below. You can right click on it and revert the changes applied to this property (with undo support).

![Prefab Instance Diff Popup](media/prefab-instance-property-diff.png)

Commit message:

Added edit prefab button to prefab get started man

manual/get-started/prefabs/index.md, after:

# Prefabs

![Prefabs](media/nested_prefabs.gif)

A **Prefab** is an asset that contains serialized **actors hierarchy including scripts** and data. The prefab acts like a template or an archetype which you can spawn in the scene. Any edits made to a prefab asset are immediately reflected in all instances produced from it, but you can also override components and settings for each instance individually.

Flax supports creating **Nested Prefabs** which means you can use objects from prefabs inside other prefabs. This helps with creating advanced gameplay content.

Creating and applying changes to prefabs is only supported in the Editor. However, spawning prefabs is dedicated to being used at runtime right in your game. Use this documentation section to learn more about creating and using prefabs.

## Topics

<div class="frontpage">

<div class="frontpage-section">
<a href="creating-prefabs.md"><img src="media/creating-prefabs-icon.jpg"></a>
<h3><a href="creating-prefabs.md">Creating prefabs</a></h3>
<p>Learn how to create a new prefab asset.</p>
</div>

<div class="frontpage-section">
<a href="prefab-editor.md"><img src="media/prefab-editor-icon.jpg"></a>
<h3><a href="prefab-editor.md">Prefab Editor</a></h3>
<p>Learn how to open and edit prefab assets.</p>
</div>

<div class="frontpage-section">
<a href="spawning-prefabs.md"><img src="media/spawning-prefabs-icon.jpg"></a>
<h3><a href="spawning-prefabs.md">Spawning prefabs</a></h3>
<p>Learn how to add prefab objects to your game.</p>
</div>

</div>

## Prefabs in Editor

Spawned prefabs are called **prefab instances** and contain a link to the prefab asset and the reference object from the prefab. The Editor highlights the prefab instances in the *Scene Window* as shown in the picture below.

![Prefab Instance in Editor](media/prefab-instance.png)

After selecting a prefab instance the *Properties Window* shows two additional buttons on top of the panel: **Select Prefab** and **View Changes**.

![Prefab Instance Diff Popup](media/prefab-instance-buttons.png)

The **Select Prefab** button shows the linked prefab asset location in the *Content Window* and selects it.

The **Edit Prefab** opens the selected prefab in a new *Prefab editor*.

The **View Changes** button shows a popup with any modified actor and scripts properties compared to the prefab. It is used to see all the changes applied to the prefab instance and allows them to be reverted or applied to the prefab. The picture below shows the content of a sample prefab changes popup. You can right click on the modified tree nodes to revert the per-property change while keeping other modification unchanged.

![Prefab Instance Diff Popup](media/prefab-instance-diff-popup.png)

You can also see per-property modifications applied to the prefab instance. The Editor shows them by highlighting the label of the changed property as shown in the picture below. You can right click on it and revert the changes applied to this property (with undo support).

![Prefab Instance Diff Popup](media/prefab-instance-property-diff.png)
