manual/graphics/lighting/sky-skybox/skybox.md, before:

# Skybox

![Skybox](media/skybox.png)

Using a **Skybox** creates a background for your scene. Typical skybox contains skies, clouds, mountains, and other distant scenery. Skyboxes use pre rendered cube textures.

> [!Note]
> To learn more about importing and using cube textures see related documentation [page here](../../textures/cube-textures.md).

## Properties

![Skybox Properties](media/skybox-properties.jpg)

| Property | Description |
|--------|--------|
| **Cube Texture** | Cube texture used to draw a skybox |
| **Custom Material** | Custom material asset to override the default one. |
| **Color** | Skybox texture color multiplier |

## Custom skybox material

By default skybox uses provided cube texture and samples it creating illusion of 3D environment. However, this behaviour can be overridden by specifying a **custom material**. Then it will be rendered with a sphere model.

To make create such a material ensure to:
* Change **Cull Mode** to **Two Sided**
* Uncheck **Depth Write** option

When editing shader in *Material Window* you can **uncheck Show -> Default Scene** for better live preview.

Here is a sample material that can be used for a simple **2-gradient sky**:

![Sky Material Example](media/sky-material.jpg)

Commit message:

Add panoramic textures for skybox support docs

manual/graphics/lighting/sky-skybox/skybox.md, after:

# Skybox

![Skybox](media/skybox.png)

Using a **Skybox** creates a background for your scene. Typical skybox contains skies, clouds, mountains, and other distant scenery. Skyboxes use pre rendered cube textures or panoramic texturs.

> [!Note]
> To learn more about importing and using cube textures see related documentation [page here](../../textures/cube-textures.md).

## Properties

![Skybox Properties](media/skybox-properties.jpg)

| Property | Description |
|--------|--------|
| **Cube Texture** | The cube texture to draw. |
| **Panoramic Texture** | The panoramic texture to draw. It should have a resolution ratio close to 2:1. |
| **Custom Material** | Custom material asset to override the default one. |
| **Color** | Skybox texture color multiplier |
| **Exposure** | The skybox texture exposure value. Can be used to make skybox brighter or dimmer. |

## Panoramic texture

![Panoramic Skybox](media/skybox-panoramic-usage.png)

If panoramic texture is assigned it will be mapped into the 360 degree of the sphere. It should have a resolution ratio close to 2:1 - Longitude / Latitude (Panoramic) skybox: 2:1 aspect ratio (eg. 8192/4096, 4096/2048, 2048/1024).

## Custom skybox material

By default skybox uses provided cube texture and samples it creating illusion of 3D environment. However, this behaviour can be overridden by specifying a **custom material**. Then it will be rendered with a sphere model.

To make create such a material ensure to:
* Change **Cull Mode** to **Two Sided**
* Uncheck **Depth Write** option

When editing shader in *Material Window* you can **uncheck Show -> Default Scene** for better live preview.

Here is a sample material that can be used for a simple **2-gradient sky**:

![Sky Material Example](media/sky-material.jpg)
