manual/ui/tutorials/blur-background.md, before:

# HOWTO: Blur UI panel background

In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a blur panel and use it to distort the background of the UI panel. To learn more about the properties of that control see the related documentation [here](../controls/blur-panel.md).

## 1. Create UI

The first step is to prepare the UI. You can follow [this tutorial](create-main-menu.md) to learn how to do it.

![Main Menu](media/main-menu-buttons.png)

## 2. Create `UIControl`

Follow the same steps as in the previous step, except now create a [UI Control](../control/index.md) actor that represents a single GUI control. Add it as a child to the *UI Canvas* (as shown in a picture below). It's important to move the created control to be *before* the other controls in the hierarchy (eg. as the first child of the canvas).

![Spawn Control](media/spawn-control.png)

## 3. Set control type to `Blur Panel`

For the newly created GUI we will use a `Blur Panel` control. To do so, select the spawned **UI Control** and click on the **Set Type** button and set its type to **Blur Panel**. Do so by picking the item from the list or type the name to search for it.

![Set Type](media/set-blur-panel.png)

## 4. Adjusting the panel

Now, set the **Blur Strength** to **8** for example and adjust the **bounds** of the control to cover the whole background of the interface (you can use *Dock Style* set to *Fill*).

## 5. See the results

The blur panel captures the scene and the UI that is located beneath the control and applies the gaussian blur effect. You can use the *Background Color* property to create a colored blur.

The picture below shows the result effect.

![Blue Panel Results](media/blur-background-result.png)

Commit message:

Update UI Control Transform docs

manual/ui/tutorials/blur-background.md, after:

# HOWTO: Blur UI panel background

In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a blur panel and use it to distort the background of the UI panel. To learn more about the properties of that control see the related documentation [here](../controls/blur-panel.md).

## 1. Create UI

The first step is to prepare the UI. You can follow [this tutorial](create-main-menu.md) to learn how to do it.

![Main Menu](media/main-menu-buttons.png)

## 2. Create `UIControl`

Follow the same steps as in the previous step, except now create a [UI Control](../control/index.md) actor that represents a single GUI control. Add it as a child to the *UI Canvas* (as shown in a picture below). It's important to move the created control to be *before* the other controls in the hierarchy (eg. as the first child of the canvas).

![Spawn Control](media/spawn-control.png)

## 3. Set control type to `Blur Panel`

For the newly created GUI we will use a `Blur Panel` control. To do so, select the spawned **UI Control** and click on the **Set Type** button and set its type to **Blur Panel**. Do so by picking the item from the list or type the name to search for it.

![Set Type](media/set-blur-panel.png)

## 4. Adjusting the panel

![UI Control Stretch All](media/ui-stretch-all.png)

Now, set the **Blur Strength** to **8** for example and adjust the **bounds** of the control to cover the whole background of the interface (you can use *Anchor Presets* set to *Stretch All* with *Shift* key pressed down to update bounds).

## 5. See the results

The blur panel captures the scene and the UI that is located beneath the control and applies the gaussian blur effect. You can use the *Background Color* property to create a colored blur.

The picture below shows the result effect.

![Blue Panel Results](media/blur-background-result.png)
